Developers Quick Start Guide (#13404)
mistercrunch/Airflow: contributrs-quick-start.rst

1. Checking required packages

.. code-block:: bash

  $ sudo apt-get install -y build-essential libssl-dev zlib1g-dev libbz2-dev \
      libreadline-dev libsqlite3-dev wget curl llvm libncurses5-dev libncursesw5-dev \
      xz-utils tk-dev libffi-dev liblzma-dev python-openssl git

  $ sudo apt install build-essentials python3.6-dev python3.7-dev python3.8-dev python-dev openssl \
       sqlite sqlite-dev default-libmysqlclient-dev libmysqld-dev postgresql

2. Install pyenv

.. code-block:: bash

  $ curl https://pyenv.run | bash

3. Add the lines suggested at the end of installation  to ~/.bashrc

4. Restart your shell so the path changes take effect and verifying installation

.. code-block:: bash

  $ exec $SHELL
  $ pyenv --version

5. Checking available version, installing required Python version to pyenv and verifying it

.. code-block:: bash

  $ pyenv install --list
  $ pyenv install 3.8.5
  $ pyenv versions

6. Creating new virtual environment named ``airflow-env`` for installed version python

.. code-block:: bash

  $ pyenv virtualenv 3.8.5 airflow-env

7. Entering virtual environment ``airflow-env``

.. code-block:: bash

  $ pyenv activate airflow-env

> 

Reviewer: Maybe add a comment here that you will install airflow in the virtual env in the next step. It's not clear why empty env is created here.

      </div>

Setting up Breeze
-----------------
1. Open terminal and enter into virtual environment ``airflow-env`` and goto project directory

.. code-block:: bash

  $ pyenv activate airflow-env
  $ cd ~/PycharmProjects/airflow/

2. Initializing breeze autocomplete

.. code-block:: bash

  $ ./breeze setup-autocomplete
  $ source ~/.bash_completion.d/breeze-complete

3. Initialize breeze environment with required python version and backend. This may take a while for first time.

.. code-block:: bash

  $ ./breeze --python 3.8 --backend mysql

4. Creating airflow tables and users. ``airflow db reset`` is required to execute at least once for Airflow Breeze to get
   the database/tables created.

.. code-block:: bash

  $ airflow db reset
  $ airflow users create --role Admin --username admin --password admin --email admin@example.com --firstname\
    foo --lastname bar

5. Closing Breeze environment. After successfully finishing above command will leave you in container,
   type ``exit`` to exit the container

.. code-block:: bash

  root@b76fcb399bb6:/opt/airflow#
  root@b76fcb399bb6:/opt/airflow# exit

.. code-block:: bash

  $ ./breeze stop

> 6. Linking Local virtual environment ``airflow-env`` with breeze.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Installing airflow in the local virtual environment ``airflow-env`` with breeze.
```

>    It may requires some packages to be installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   It may requires some packages to be installed, watch the output of the command to see which ones are missing.
```

.. code-block:: bash

  $ sudo apt-get install sqlite libsqlite3-dev default-libmysqlclient-dev postgresql
  $ ./breeze initialize-local-virtualenv --python 3.8

7. Add following line to ~/.bashrc in order to call breeze command from anywhere.

.. code-block:: bash

  export PATH=${PATH}:"/home/${USER}/PycharmProjects/airflow"
  source ~/.bashrc

Using Breeze
-----------------------------------------

1. Starting breeze environment using ``breeze start-airflow`` starts Breeze environment with last configuration run(
   In this case python and backend will be picked up from last execution ``./breeze --python 3.8 --backend mysql``)
   It also automatically starts webserver, backend and scheduler. It drops you in tmux with scheduler in bottom left
   and webserver in bottom right. Use ``[Ctrl + B] and Arrow keys`` to navigate.

.. code-block:: bash

>   $ breeze start-airflow

Reviewer: You will have to update that slightly (including the screenshot). We are just about to merge a change #13313 where we have additional window started that watches and recompiles assets automatically for developing webserver. This is a cool addition and it would be great if you add information about it here :).

Author: Sure, i will update it when it's merged.

Reviewer: Just merged! Please rebase and update and it will be ready to merge :).

Happy New Year!

   ======================================= test session starts =======================================
   platform linux -- Python 3.8.6, pytest-6.0.1, py-1.9.0, pluggy-0.13.1 -- /usr/local/bin/python
   cachedir: .pytest_cache
   rootdir: /opt/airflow, configfile: pytest.ini
   plugins: celery-4.4.7, requests-mock-1.8.0, xdist-1.34.0, flaky-3.7.0, rerunfailures-9.0, instafail
   -0.4.2, forked-1.3.0, timeouts-1.2.1, cov-2.10.0
   setup timeout: 0.0s, execution timeout: 0.0s, teardown timeout: 0.0s
   collected 3 items

   tests/utils/test_decorators.py::TestApplyDefault::test_apply PASSED                         [ 33%]
   tests/utils/test_decorators.py::TestApplyDefault::test_default_args PASSED                  [ 66%]
   tests/utils/test_decorators.py::TestApplyDefault::test_incorrect_default_args PASSED        [100%]

   ======================================== 3 passed in 1.49s ========================================

- Running All the test with Breeze by specifying required python version, backend, backend version

.. code-block:: bash

   $ breeze --backend mysql --mysql-version 5.7 --python 3.8 --db-reset --test-type All  tests

> <<<<<<< HEAD

Reviewer: Remnant from merge. Should be removed.

=======
- Running specific test in container using shell scripts. Testing in container scripts are located in
  ``.\scripts\in_container`` directory.

.. code-block:: bash

   root@df8927308887:/opt/airflow# ./scripts/in_container/
    _in_container_script_init.sh            run_generate_constraints.sh
    check_environment.sh                    run_init_script.sh
    entrypoint_ci.sh                        run_mypy.sh
    entrypoint_exec.sh                      run_prepare_provider_packages.sh
    prod/                                   run_prepare_provider_readme.sh
    refresh_pylint_todo.sh                  run_pylint.sh
    run_ci_tests.sh                         run_system_tests.sh
    run_clear_tmp.sh                        run_test_package_import_all_classes.sh
    run_cli_tool.sh                         run_test_package_install.sh
    run_docs_build.sh                       run_tmux.sh
    run_extract_tests.sh                    run_tmux_welcome.sh
    run_fix_ownership.sh                    stop_tmux_airflow.sh
    run_flake8.sh                           update_quarantined_test_status.py

   root@df8927308887:/opt/airflow# ./scripts/in_container/run_docs_build.sh

> >>>>>>> Moved contributrs-quick-start.rst to root directory and added testing scirpts example.

Reviewer: Same here

- Running specific type of test

  - Types of tests

  .. code-block:: bash

   $ breeze --backend mysql --mysql-version 5.7 --python 3.8 --db-reset --test-type
      All          CLI          Heisentests  Integration  Other        Providers
      API          Core         Helm         MySQL        Postgres     WWW

  - Running specific type of Test

  .. code-block:: bash

    $ breeze --backend mysql --mysql-version 5.7 --python 3.8 --db-reset --test-type Core

- Running Integration test for specific test type

  - Types of Integration Tests

  .. code-block:: bash

     $ breeze --backend mysql --mysql-version 5.7 --python 3.8 --db-reset --test-type Core --integration

>        all        cassandra  kerberos   mongo      openldap   presto     rabbitmq   redis

Reviewer: List of integrations changed in the meantime (added pinot).

    Check hooks apply to the repository..................................Passed
    black................................................................Passed
    Check for merge conflicts............................................Passed
    Debug Statements (Python)............................................Passed
    Check builtin type constructor use...................................Passed
    Detect Private Key...................................................Passed
    Fix End of Files.....................................................Passed
    ...........................................................................

5. Running pre-commit for selected files

.. code-block:: bash

  $ pre-commit run  --files airflow/decorators.py tests/utils/test_task_group.py

6. Running specific hook for selected files

.. code-block:: bash

  $ pre-commit run black --files airflow/decorators.py tests/utils/test_task_group.py
    black...............................................................Passed
  $ pre-commit run flake8 --files airflow/decorators.py tests/utils/test_task_group.py
    Run flake8..........................................................Passed

> <<<<<<< HEAD

Reviewer: Another merge remnant.

   directory.

.. code-block:: bash

   root@df8927308887:/opt/airflow# ./scripts/in_container/
    _in_container_script_init.sh            run_generate_constraints.sh
    check_environment.sh                    run_init_script.sh
    entrypoint_ci.sh                        run_mypy.sh
    entrypoint_exec.sh                      run_prepare_provider_packages.sh
    prod/                                   run_prepare_provider_readme.sh
    refresh_pylint_todo.sh                  run_pylint.sh
    run_ci_tests.sh                         run_system_tests.sh
    run_clear_tmp.sh                        run_test_package_import_all_classes.sh
    run_cli_tool.sh                         run_test_package_install.sh
    run_docs_build.sh                       run_tmux.sh
    run_extract_tests.sh                    run_tmux_welcome.sh
    run_fix_ownership.sh                    stop_tmux_airflow.sh
    run_flake8.sh                           update_quarantined_test_status.py

   root@df8927308887:/opt/airflow# ./scripts/in_container/run_docs_build.sh

8. Enabling Pre-commit check before push. It will run pre-commit automatically before committing and stops the commit

> =======

Reviewer: And here

7. Enabling Pre-commit check before push. It will run pre-commit automatically before committing and stops the commit

> >>>>>>> Moved contributrs-quick-start.rst to root directory and added testing scirpts example.

Reviewer: And here

   if found any error.

.. code-block:: bash

  $ cd ~/PycharmProjects/airflow
  $ pre-commit install
  $ git commit -m "Added xyz"

> <<<<<<< HEAD

Reviewer: Here too

9. To disable Pre-commit

> =======

Reviewer: Here too

8. To disable Pre-commit

> >>>>>>> Moved contributrs-quick-start.rst to root directory and added testing scirpts example.

Reviewer: Here too.

   contributor</a>

  - |Workflow for a contribution|

  .. |Workflow for a contribution| raw:: html

   <a href="https://github.com/apache/airflow/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.rst#contribution-workflow" target="_blank">
   Workflow for a contribution</a>

Raising Pull Request
-----------------------------------

1. Go to your Github account and open your fork project and click on Branches

   .. raw:: html

    <div align="center" style="padding-bottom:10px">
      <img src="images/quick_start/pr1.png"
           alt="Goto fork and select branches">
    </div>

2. Click on ``New pull request`` button on branch from which you want to raise a pull request.

   .. raw:: html

      <div align="center" style="padding-bottom:10px">
        <img src="images/quick_start/pr2.png"
             alt="Accessing local airflow">
      </div>

3. Add title and description as per Contributing guidelines and click on ``Create pull request``.

   .. raw:: html

      <div align="center" style="padding-bottom:10px">
        <img src="images/quick_start/pr3.png"
             alt="Accessing local airflow">
      </div>

Syncing Fork and rebasing Pull request
--------------------------------------

> 

Reviewer: Maybe one paragraph of explantation why this is needed? something like:

Often it takes several days or weeks to discuss and iterate with the PR until it is ready to merge. In the meantime new commits are merged, and you might run into conflicts, therefore you should periodically synchronize master in your fork with the `apache/airflow` master and rebase your PR on top of it. This chapter describes how to do it.
